"The successful tenderer shall furnish to the Employer a security in the form of a bank guarantee for an amount of 3% of the Contract value (LOA) as per ITT clause F5 and bank guarantee will be released on year to year on the basis of successful completion of yearly work followed by issue of performance certificate by the Engineer-In-Charge.
The Performance Security shall be valid up to 6 months beyond the Defect Liability Period.
The Extension of time for submission of Performance Security beyond 30 (Thirty) days up to 60 days from date of issue of LOA may be given by the Authority who is competent to sign the Contract Agreement. However, a Penal Interest of 15% per annum shall be charged for the entire period i.e., from the date of issue of LOA to the date of submission of Performance Security. In case the Contractor fails to submit the requisite Performance Security within 60 days from the date of issue of LOA, the Contract shall be annulled duly forfeiting any dues, payable against the Contract. The failed Contractor shall be debarred not only from participating in re-tender for that work
but also in any other tender of DMRC for a period of two years from date of issue of LOA. The approved form provided in the “Instructions to Tenderers documents shall be used for Bank
Guarantee.
In case, if Contract is terminated due to Contractor’s default in terms of GCC Clause 13.2, the full 3% Performance Security amount shall be forfeited. Shortfall amount, if any, shall be recovered by the Employer from monies due to the Contractor under the Contract including, without limitation, and the Employer shall have the power to recover any balance from monies due to the Contractor under any other Contract between the Employer and the Contractor.
In case of JV/Consortium, the requirement of Performance Security shall be distributed between/among the members as per their percentage participation. The constituent members
shall submit Performance Security (as per their % participation in JV / consortium) from their respective bank accounts. Performance Security executed from the bank accounts of
JV/Consortium or any other bank account shall not be accepted.
If the contract value increases by more than 25% of the original contract value, the Performance Security will be increased accordingly.
The scheduled foreign bank or scheduled commercial bank in India must be on the Structured Financial Messaging System (SFMS) platform. A separate advice of the BG will invariably be
sent by the issuing bank to the Employer’s Bank through SFMS and only after this the BG will become operative and acceptable to the employer. It is, therefore, in the own interest
of the contractor to obtain Employer’s bank IFSC Code, it’s branch and address and advise these particulars to the BG issuing bank and request them to send advice of BG through
SFMS to the Employer’s Bank.
The amount of PBG can be changed in accordance with latest guidelines issued from government. The decision of Engineer’s in-charge in this regard will be final.
Once Performance Security shall become due and shall be paid to the Contractor on signing of the Performance Certificate after the expiry of the final Defect Liability Period as specified."
"PENALTY & DEDUCTION
a) For poor quality of work in trains and Depot, a penalty up to 50% of concerned activity rate may be imposed by DMRC.
b) In addition to the above, additional penalties for accident, staff without uniform, less manpower, defective machines, deficit consumables etc may be imposed separately in case of any violations as under:-
i) The firm must maintain a “Zero Accident Record”. In case of any major accident /fatality a penalty up to 20% of the bill for the month in which the incidence taken place shall be imposed.
ii) If Team Leader, Manager, Supervisor & cleaning staff are found absent or short, a deduction at the rate of equivalent to latest daily minimum wage( inclusive employer PF & ESI) plus Rs. 100/- per employee per day will be charged subject to the actual execution, completion and quality of work. The rate of wages shall be as per minimum wages rate as applicable to each category of staff.
iv) If during inspection, the workers are not found in proper PPE (Personnel protective equipment) during critical train relevant cleaning activities, a penalty up to Rs.200/- per employee per day may be imposed. 
v) In case of non-availability of Chemicals/ consumables/cleaning accessories etc. as prescribed in the contract for prescribed usage, penalty up to Rs. 200/- per day will be imposed.
vi) In case of any damage to DMRC property done by any of the worker of the contractor, the actual amount will be recovered or the contractor has to repair/replace such damage at his own cost.
vii) In case of non-disposal of cleaning waste by the contractor at the prescribed MCD site a penalty of Rs.500/- per day will be imposed.
viii) Breakdown time of any machine shall not be more than 48 hours. The penalty of Rs 200 per day per machine beyond breakdown time of 48 hrs. will be imposed. If any machine found faulty/defective during surprise inspection then contractor shall replace defective machine with new machine.
ix) For imposing penalty on account of ‘poor train cleaning’ methodology of sample inspection of trains shall be followed. Engineer-in-charge will decide methodology.
x) In case of non compliance of any other provisions of labour laws pointed out by employer/ engineer or their
representative, penalty of Rs. 5000/- for each noncompliance informed in writing under the contract will be imposed and will lead to termination of the contract.
xi) Verification of work shall be done in percentage term considering deployment of manpower, machinery, consumables etc. In case of any work of improper cleaning, due to short supervision, short deployment of man power- /equipment/ machinery, consumables etc. as compared to
requirement prescribed in the contract, only proportionate amount shall be payable to the contractor as per BOQ. DMRC decision for amount to be deducted for percentage completion of work shall be final.
xii) The penalties as prescribed above shall not relieve the contractor from his obligation to execute the works or from any other of his obligations and liabilities under the contract.
xiii) Contractor performance shall be evaluated every month as per provision in SCC Clause 12. If contractor performance does not found satisfactory, action will be taken as per provision in SCC clause 12.Decision of DMRC will be final.
xiv) In case of delay in payment of wages to any workmen, a penalty of Rs.100/- per day per workman will be imposed.
xv) In no cases cash payment would be allowed except few circumstances i.e. non availability of bank account. Proof of process initiated for opening of account to be submitted
before cash payment. In case of making payment in the absence of Principal Employer’s representative, penalty will be imposed as given below:-
S.N. No. of workers involved in making payment   Penalty for each violation
1                     01 to 10 workers                                            Rs.10,000/-
2                     11 to 50 workers                                            Rs.50,000/-
3                       51 or more workers                                      Rs.1,00,000/-
xvi) Penalty of Rs.500/- per car will be imposed when the contractor does not perform planned activity as per specified frequency of the scheduled train cleaning activity.
xvii) In case the contractor does not attend the complaint within 24 hrs. Rs.500.00 will be charged for each case.
c)It should be clearly understood that if, penalty / deductions in any one year of the contract exceeds 15% of average annual value of contract, the contractor will be blacklisted
from DMRC for participation in the similar category of works."

"Tenderer shall use machine of same make and model no. as specified in Tender Documents. Tenderer may note that no tools, machinery, plant, equipment and consumables of machinery shall be supplied by the employer. The tenderer has to arrange all tools, equipment, machinery and consumables of machinery as required for the work under the contract.
The plant, machinery and equipments brought for the execution of work, unless otherwise specified, shall be under ownership of tenderer. Tenderer shall not remove above plant, machinery and equipments without permission of Engineer-in-charge.
The Engineer-in-charge shall not, at any time, be liable for the loss or damage to any of the contractor’s Plant, Machinery, Temporary Works or materials.
The contractor shall ensure comprehensive AMC of all plants & machinery supplied for the subject work. The necessary documentary proof of the AMC of the plant & machinery shall be provided by the contractor as specified in Appendix -26 (Point no.19 of form of tender). Contractor shall submit the proof of AMC."
"A) SAFETY REQUIRMENTS
The premises are having High Voltage Over Head Electric Lines, High Voltage Equipments on Train and Depot, the movement of Trains in the depot, etc which can cause major injury, electrocution, death to the personnel and thus requirements for safety observance are very high.
The contractor shall be responsible for ensuring the fitness and safety of all persons employed at work. In this regard, the team leader, manager, and supervisor must ensure the observance of safety requirements by themselves and Cleaning Staff. It shall be the sole responsibility of the contractor to adopt all the safety measures and deploy cleaning personnel who are adequately trained in safety.
The contractor is responsible to ensure that necessary and adequate personal protective equipments are all the times available for the service personnel working. Contractor shall ensure to provide the Hi-Visibility/ Reflecting Jackets to all cleaning staff along with supervisor/ manager /team leader.
It shall be the contractor’s sole responsibility to make aware all his deployed staffs about the safety rules and procedure including Do’s and Don’ts of working in the vicinity of 25 KV overhead Equipment as per Technical Specification and scope of work for train cleaning.
B) ACCIDENTS
If any accident occurs due to execution of work or due to negligence on the part of the contractor’s personnel it shall be the full responsibility of the Contractor
If any damage occurs to the structures/ material & equipment as well as rolling stock due to cleaning/polishing operations, the cost of damage will be recovered from the contractor’s bill.
The firm must maintain a “Zero Accident Record”.
C) SAFETY AND DISPLAY OF SIGNAGE
Contractor shall adopt the necessary safety procedures to avoid any type of accidents to passengers, Employer’s personnel, any other personnel and to avoid damages to employer’s assets.
The contractor shall display necessary signage with the approval of the Employer or his authorized representative. The type of
signage will also be got approved from the Employer or his authorized representative.
D) TRAINING ON SAFETY
DMRC will provide one day training on safety to Cleaning supervisors and team leaders. Supervisors and Team leaders shall be responsible to provide this safety training to the deputed cleaning staff and obtain their assurance in the format prescribed by Engineer-In-charge. Contractor shall submit the
proof of this training and having obtained the assurance of all staff to Engineer-In-charge. Without above training and having obtained proper proof of assurance, no staff will be deputed for work in DMRC.
E) SAFETY AUDIT
The contractor or contractor’s nominated representative shall do the safety audit of the site at least once in a month and shall report to Engineer-In-charge every month."
"The Employer shall make arrangements for Water supply and Electricity necessary for the Works.
The contractor shall make his own arrangements to tap the Electricity from the nominated sockets / points. The contractor shall tap the Electricity as per IE Rules & IE Act (Latest) duly following all safety precautions. The contractor shall submit full scheme for the requirement of Electricity & water. If scheme mentions Electricity requirement which is beyond the capacity of the Employer, in that case the contractor shall make his own arrangements / alternative arrangements.
The Contractor should make his own arrangements to draw the water from the available water point to the working place in such a manner without affecting the premises.
The Contractor should make his own arrangements for Electricity and Water if the Employer fails to provide Electricity and Water supply due to technical or any other reasons beyond the control of the Employer."
"RECORDS
Contractor will have to maintain proper records of Cleaning, Wax polishing of Rolling Stock (Trains) and Cleaning & Housekeeping of depot premises for each activity. Similarly, Contractor will have to make a plan for Cleaning & Wax polishing of Rolling Stock and Cleaning & Housekeeping of depot premises as per direction of Engineer-In-charge. Some of the records to be maintained are as follows:
a. Deployment of manpower per day.
b. Availability of Machines/ Plants/ Equipments.
c. Stock details and utilization of Chemicals / Reagents / Detergents/ consumables/ accessories.
d. Check sheets for Details of Cleaning and Wax polishing of Rolling Stock (Trains) and Cleaning, Housekeeping of depot premises activities carried per day as per Cleaning schedule of work.
e. Monthly summary of work carried out in as per schedule of work
f. Monthly report submission.
h. Records as per labour law."
LOA will be given for as per tender. However, performance of contractor will be evaluated (as per clause no 12 of SCC) for continuation of the contract for one year at a time.
"Only revision in minimum wages as notified by the government of NCT of Delhi or the Central Government, whichever is higher, from time to time and/or ceiling of Wage/Salary limit for payment of EPF & ESI etc, and/or in the percentage value of contribution towards EPF & ESI etc by government (state/union) then the Same will be compensated by DMRC with price variation formula as below:
Total original accepted cost of work of (LOA time period) years (without GST) = “TC”
Total increased Labour Cost due to escalation in Minimum Wages (Number of staff as per minimum specified in BOQ Form F-A) “LC” = [ Number of days in (LOA time period)years of contract period) x Number of Staff x {Revised Minimum Wage per day-Minimum Wages per day w.e.f. (as on last date of Submission Tender)}]*
Percentage Increase “P” = (LCx100)/TC
Percentage increase (upto two digits) will be considered without any rounding off for third and more digits.
Rate of BOQ activities during the entire contract period shall be the accepted rates as in original LOA issued to the contractor at the time of award of contract. Whereas percentage increase “P” shall be applicable w.e.f. the date of escalation in minimum wages.
Revised rate of Activities shall be = Accepted rate of BOQ activities + ((Accepted rate of BOQ activities x “P”)/100). The revised rates shall be applicable w.e.f. the date of escalation.
(*) Formula shall be applicable for individual categories of manpower separately and “LC” will be the sum of individual values."
"The Contractor shall not demolish, remove or alter structures or other facilities on the site without prior approval of the Engineer- In-charge.
All surface and sub-soil drains shall be maintained in a clean, sound and satisfactory state of performance.
All Electrical and Electronic equipments shall be cleaned under the supervision of an authorized representative of DMRC.
The contractor shall clean only these areas of the Electrical/ Electronic & other specified equipments which are either mentioned in the specifications or are permitted by the Employer or mentioned by the authorized representative of the Employer."
The Contractor shall insure against liability to third parties in the joint names of the Employer, the Contractor and Subcontractors, (wherever applicable) for any loss, damage, death or bodily injury which may occur to any physical property (except things insured otherwise) or to any person (except persons insured by the employer, staff of other contractors working in the premises, contractor staff under Sub-Clause 7.4), which may arise out of the performance of the Contract. The insurance shall be at least for the amount Rs. 7.5 Lakhs for each incident with number of incident unlimited.
"a) Labour Law Registers: Maintain registers under various labour laws rules 2017 i.e. employee Register (Form-A), Wage Register (Form-B), Register of Loan/ Recoveries (Form- C), Attendance Register (Form-D) etc. And show all these registers to Engineer In-charge.
b) Proof of Compliance of provision of EPF: EPF should be ensured on all workers, for this separate Electronic-Challan- Cum-Receipt (ECR) for this contract shall be furnished by contractor along with challan.
c) Proof of Compliance of provision of ESI & Workmen compensation act etc.: ESI should be ensured on all workers, for this Electronic-Challan-Cum-Receipt (ECR) shall be
furnished by contractor along with challan for this contract. Copy of the ESI card of all workers will be submitted within time specified in Appendix-26 (Point No-16) of ‘Form of
Tender’.
d) Proof of Compliance of Minimum wages act: Compliance of minimum wages is of prime importance, for this muster roll tobe maintained as per actual available manpower on each day. Accordingly wage register to be maintained after considering the latest minimum wages of each category of staff. The wages of every person employed against the
contract shall be paid before expiry of the 7th (Seventh) day of the wage period. For this muster roll, wage register & proof of payment of wages shall be submitted along with
each monthly bill.
e) Proof of Compliance of provision of insurance policies as per SCC clause 7.3 & 7.4.
f) Certificates by contractor for compliance of labour laws on desired format as per Annexure-12 of ITT.
g) Monthly Summary of Train Cleaning Activities.
h) Monthly Summary of House Keeping Activities.
i) Month wise activities verified by building authority.
j) Material consumption detail.
k) Daily checklist of train cleaning activities.
l) Daily checklist of Housekeeping activities.
m) Certificate for Safety training of staff.
n) GST declaration on desired format of DMRC.
o) Other documents as desired by DMRC time to time.
Note: All the above documents to be submitted on the formats as desired by DMRC. Formats may be changed any time on the discretion of DMRC to suit the requirement."
"The contractor shall use the materials, cleaning chemicals, and consumables as specified in the technical specification and scope of work. The Contractor has to arrange all materials, cleaning reagents and consumables required for the work. The Contractor shall propose the make/sources for supply of all required cleaning reagents/ consumable/ accessories and get them approved by the Engineer-In-charge before putting them in to use. Contractor shall preferably have a rate contract or agreement with the suppliers of chemicals/consumables/ cleaning accessories during the execution of contract of approved/prescribed brand. The Tenderer shall submit the samples of all cleaning accessories to the Engineer-In-charge for approval and shall use them only after the samples are approved. Approved samples for all the cleaning accessories/ consumables shall be kept on display and the same should be open for verification.
Nothing extra shall be payable to the Contractor on this account. Contractor shall submit all cleaning chemicals and consumables to Custody store along with challan on monthly
basis or as per requirement given by DMRC and it will be used for cleaning only after issue from Custody store."
"The contractor shall be provided room in depot for making site office and for storage of contractor’s material. However, suitable furnishing of the rooms as required will be the responsibility of tenderer. If the space provided by the employer is insufficient, It shall be the responsibility of the Contractor to arrange at his own expense the required office or store room. The office and store room such provided/constructed shall only be used for site requirement not for any other purpose.
The contractor shall provide free access to the Engineer-Incharge and the Engineer-In-charge’s representative who will have right of inspection including that of instructing the
Contractor to remove a particular material from the stores and not to use the same on the Works."
